# LeetCode Problem 261: [Graph Valid Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/graph-valid-tree/description/)
## Problem Description
You have a graph of n nodes labeled from 0 to n - 1. You are given an integer n and a list of edges where edges[i] = [ai, bi] indicates that there is an undirected edge between nodes ai and bi in the graph.

Return true if the edges of the given graph make up a valid tree, and false otherwise.

## Solution Approaches
Valid tree:
- No cycle: not visited
- Nodes are connected: length of visited = number of nodes

### DFS Algorithm
Algorithm Pattern:
the Depth-First Search (DFS) algorithm used to traverse the graph and check for cycles.

1. Initialization:
    - Create adjacency list
    - Track visited nodes
    - Track previous node to prevent backtracking loop
2. DFS function:
    - Check if there is any loop. Check if it is visted
    - If not, add it to visited
    - Check neighbors:
        - Skip the neighbors that is backtracked. Prevent False positive loop
        - Check dfs recursive on neighbor and the current node as previous
3. Run Main:
    - return dfs starting from node 0 and if nodes are connected

## Example Description

## Python Code
```python
class Solution:
    def validTree(self, n: int, edges: List[List[int]]) -> bool:
        adjacency = {node:[] for node in range(n)}
        for neighbor1, neighbor2 in edges:
            adjacency[neighbor1].append(neighbor2)
            adjacency[neighbor2].append(neighbor1)

        visited = set()

        def dfs(node, previous):
            if node in visited:
                return False

            visited.add(node)

            for neighbor in adjacency[node]:
                if previous == neighbor:
                    continue
                if not dfs(neighbor, node):
                    return False
            
            return True

        return dfs(0, -1) and n == len(visited)
```
## Complexity Analysis
- Time complexity : O(V + E) The DFS algorithm visits each node and edge once.

- Space complexity : O(n ^ 2) The overall space complexity of the validTree function is dominated by the adjacency dictionary, making it O(n^2).
    - The space complexity of the validTree function is primarily determined by the ```visited set and the adjacency dictionary```.
        - visited set: This set stores all nodes that have been visited during the DFS. In the worst case, every node in the graph will be visited, so the space complexity of the visited set is O(n), where n is the number of nodes in the graph.
        - adjacency dictionary: This dictionary stores the adjacency list representation of the graph. Each key in the dictionary represents a node, and the corresponding value is a list of all nodes that are directly connected to the key node. In the worst case, every node is connected to every other node, so the space complexity of the adjacency dictionary is O(n^2), where n is the number of nodes in the graph.